README.md, before:

# Twin Smooth Integers

Sieving for large twin smooth integers using single solutions to the Prouhet-Tarry-Escott (PTE) problem.
Optimised for single solutions by doing the modulo computation first.

Ideal PTE solutions provide polynomials a(x) and b(x) such that |a(x) - b(x)| = C is an interger.

To search for twin smooth integers (i.e. n + 1 and n - 1 are smooth) one can define a search interval I and use one of the following approaches.

Naive approach:

    For every element l in I:
        if a(l) and b(l) are smooth:
            if a(l) / C and b(l) / C are integers:
                print l

The tree approach by Costello, Meyer and Naehrig combined many PTE solutions and used common factors of the polynomials.

Optimised approach (for single solutions):

    For every element l in I:
        if a(l) / C and b(l) / C are integers:
            if a(l) and b(l) are smooth:
                print l
                
This decreases the number of look-ups for smoothness and allows to do a large part of the "modulo C" calculations in a pre-computation, that can be used for all search intervals.

There is a Sage implementation for explanatory reasons and two C implementations with maximal variable sizes of 64 and 128 bit respectively. For explanation of the individual steps please see the commentary in the code.

More details and references can be found in the paper ***comming soon***.

Commit message:

included hint to PTE solutions

README.md, after:

# Twin Smooth Integers

Sieving for large twin smooth integers using single solutions to the Prouhet-Tarry-Escott (PTE) problem.
Optimised for single solutions by doing the modulo computation first.

Ideal PTE solutions provide polynomials a(x) and b(x) such that |a(x) - b(x)| = C is an interger.

To search for twin smooth integers (i.e. n + 1 and n - 1 are smooth) one can define a search interval I and use one of the following approaches.

Naive approach:

    For every element l in I:
        if a(l) and b(l) are smooth:
            if a(l) / C and b(l) / C are integers:
                print l

The tree approach by Costello, Meyer and Naehrig combined many PTE solutions and used common factors of the polynomials.

Optimised approach (for single solutions):

    For every element l in I:
        if a(l) / C and b(l) / C are integers:
            if a(l) and b(l) are smooth:
                print l
                
This decreases the number of look-ups for smoothness and allows to do a large part of the "modulo C" calculations in a pre-computation, that can be used for all search intervals.

There is a Sage implementation for explanatory reasons and two C implementations with maximal variable sizes of 64 and 128 bit respectively. For explanation of the individual steps please see the commentary in the code.
The list of used and/or referenced PTE solutions can be found in the parameters.c file for the 128 bit C implementation.

More details and references can be found in the paper ***comming soon***.
